Figure 4  displays the CD perturbations for ‘echinomycin binding to various  synthetic and natural DNAs. Large perturbations are apparent for CpC, CpG,  and CpG + GpC.  From  the previous results  of  Van  Dyke  and  DervanY7 the  large change in the CD contribution of  the CpG upit is not surprising. CpG is  not implicated in their data as a direct binding site; nonetheless, each time it  occurs in  one of  the four  base  sequences proposed to bind  echinomycin, the  geometry  and electronic coupling of  the CpG unit  are altered  strongly upon  binding.  Not all CpG units show this perturbation; only those CpG units that  occur  in  appropriate  sequences are  altered.  To  a  first  approximation,  the  number of  such altered CpG units is proportional to the total number of  CpG  units in  the double-stranded structure.  This  proportionality  causes the  CD  changes, which are actually due to a fraction of  the CpG units to be ascribed  t o  them all. The consequence is that the CpG CD contribution will be altered  by  the  binding  of  echinomycin whether  it  binds  the  drug  directly  or  not  because  of  the intimate association of  the CpG unit (and only the CpG unit)  with the binding sites. This perturbation may be viewed as a confirmation of  the Van Dyke and Dervan results. Comparison of the plots for CpG alone and  the combination of  CpG with GpC indicates that GpC is a heavily perturbed  intercalation  site. ApA and ApT exhibit little perturbation.  The combination  of  TpA  and  ApT  is  the  negative  of  APT  alone,  which  argues  that  the  perturbation  from  TpA is more substantial than that  from APT. Considera-  tion of  the curve for TpC + ApT + CpG reveals that it is very nearly the sum  of the curves for CpG + APT. As a result, TpC does not appear on attractive  binding  site.  The  other  combination  with  a  positive  contribution  by  CpG  (ApC - APT + CpG)  is perturbed  only  slightly;  consideration  of  the reflec-  tion  of  ApT  together  with  CpG  in  this  combination  suggests  that  ApC  is  probably no more preferable as a binding site than APT. ApG  - ApT - CpG  